The input to the cache simulator is a memory access trace, which we have generated by
executing real programs. The trace contains memory addresses accessed during program
execution. Your cache simulator will have to use these addresses to determine if the access
is a hit or a miss, and the actions to perform in each case. The memory trace file consists
of multiple lines. Each line of the trace file corresponds to a memory access performed by
the program. Each line consists of two columns, which are space separated. First column
lists whether the memory access is a read (R) or a write (W) operation. The second column
reports the actual 48-bit memory address that has been accessed by the program.
Here is a sample trace file.

R 0x9cb3d40
W 0x9cb3d40
R 0x9cb3d44
W 0x9cb3d44
R 0xbf8ef498

FIRST PROGRAM:

You will implement a cache simulator to evaluate different configurations of caches. The
followings are the requirements for your the first part of the cache simulator:
• Simulate only one level cache; i.e., an L1 cache.
• The cache size, associativity, the replacement policy, and the block size are input
parameters. Cache size and block size are specified in bytes.
• You have to simulate a write through cache.
• Replacement algorithm: You have to support two replacement policies. The two replacement policies 
are First In First Out (FIFO) and Least Recently Used (LRU).

You have to name your cache simulator first. Your program should support the following usage interface: 
./first <cache size><associativity><cache policy><block size><trace file>
where:
A) <cache size>is the total size of the cache in bytes. This number should be a power of 2.
B) <associativity>is one of:
direct - simulate a direct mapped cache.
assoc - simulate a fully associative cache.
assoc:n - simulate an n way associative cache. n will be a power of 2.
C) <cache policy>Here is valid cache policy is fifo and lru.
D) <block size>is a power of 2 integer that specifies the size of the cache block in bytes.
E) <trace file>is the name of the trace file.
Validity of the inputs. Your program have to check for following improper inputs. 1) if
the right number of inputs are passed to the program. 2) if the cache size, block sizes are
power of 2. 3) if the trace file exists. 4) if the trace file exist, it is safe to assume it always
follow the format described in the beginning of the assignment. 5) for all the cases with
improper inputs, your program should print error and then terminate.


Sample Run:


Your program should print out the number of memory reads (per cache block), memory
writes (per cache block), cache hits, and cache misses. You should follow the exact same
format shown below (no space between letters), otherwise, the autograder can not grade
your program properly.
$./first 32 assoc:2 fifo 4 trace2.txt
memread:3499
memwrite:2861
cachehit:6501
cachemiss:3499

The above example, simulates a 2-way set associate cache of size 32 bytes. Each cache block
is 4 bytes. The trace file name is trace2.txt.

Note: Some of the trace files are quite large. So it might take a few minutes for the
autograder to grade all testcases.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
